In the first example
of graph analytics for
big data, we'll consider
the social media called Twitter.
And graphs representing tweets.
What types of objects and
relationships does a tweet have?
Well, in fact, tweets consist
of many of the same elements and
relationships as the Facebook posts.
Tweets have users, they contain text,
tweets can point to one another or
to URL's, they have hashtags, they can
include reference to various other types
of media, but what about relationships?
Well much like Facebook, relationships and
tweets are more reflective of
what the users do with tweets.
For example, people create tweets,
they respond to tweets,
they mention other users, and so forth.
Let's look at these
relationships in detail.
In this graph, all of the light
blue notes are tweets, and
all of the purple notes are users.
When a specific user
creates a specific tweet,
an entity is created in
the graph as a result.
We'll come back to this graph
in the next few slides.
So what we want to do with it?
Well to be very specific,
this graph was created from tweets
of a bunch of online gamers.
In this case, we were monitoring
the tweets of all people
who played particular online video game.
Typically, gamers are very
excited about their video games.
They're exited about their characters
of the video games and they want to
discuss the video games they're excited
about, when new versions are released.
So what are the data
science questions here?
People who look at these things, such as
behavioral psychologists, want to know.
If you are a war game user or
if you play any other violent game, where
there is a lot of fighting online, do
these people also show violent behavior?
Maybe they do, maybe they don't.
They also want to know whether as a result
of looking at somebody's tweets and
following them over time they can tell if
the person is addicted to the game or not.
So why use graphs for that?
One of the things you could
do is what we showed here,
from the graphs you can extract
certain elements like conversations.
If you look at it, you will see all of
them have somebody posting something.
Somebody responding to the post, and the
first person responding to the response.
They are retweeting, and
they are responding, and so forth.
You would see a conversation chain
going on which can be short or long,
like you see, and
other people would join in.
We don't know if it's violent or not, but
at least there is a lively
conversation going on about something.
Using graphs, we could find some
meaningful parts of a graph
that we can further analyze using
techniques like text analytics.
Another kind of thing people
would like to identify,
is which players are interacting
with which other players?
Who are these people?
Do they form a close community?
Can anybody join in?
Are there groups, what are the groups?
If you find a group,
who are the most influential users?
Who are the people that everybody
refers to, listens to and so on?
Graph analytics is used to answer all
these questions about a conversation
that's going on live in
social media stream.
Let's look at our next example.